# Extrapolating Physics Data Using Machine Learning Algorithms

Repository is currently under construction.  All codes contained within should work but currently adding comments and documentation in addition to additional files.  Organization of repository is likely to change.

## Getting Started


## UNDER CONSTRUCTION
* For an explanation of the codes pertaining to regression algorithms see [this file](Regression/README.md)
* For an explanation of the codes pertaining to recurrent neural networks algorithms see [this file](RecurrentNeuralNetworks/README.md)

## Outline

### ComparingRegressionAndRNNs.ipynb

Compares the extrapolation abilities of LiR, LaR, RR, and KRR and several different RNNs on the function y = 4sin(3x+2).  Includes brief explanation of all algorithms with links to longer explanations in other locations.

### Data Sets

#### DataSets.py

A collection of data sets from various many-body methods and some functions.  All methods return the same values in the same order: a string representing the name of the data set, a recommended training dimension, the x component of the data set, and the y component of the data set.

#### ElectronGas.py

A collection of data sets collected from an electron gas with varying rs and N values.  The data set was generated by Morten Hjorth-Jensen and used in a paper by James Shepherd (located in Literature folder).

#### EoS.csv

A data file containing data to plot the equation of state of nuclear matter.  Used in the Python script EquationsOfState.py.  Data taken from the machine learning lecture notes by Morthen Hjorth-Jensen.

#### EquationOfState.py

A file that imports the data from the text file EoS.csv, formats the data using Pandas and returns the densities and energies, as well as a design matrix that dits the nuclear equation of state.

#### MassEval2016.dat

A text file that contains data on the nuclear binding energies of isotopes.  Used to fit the liquid drop model in the file NuclearBindingEnergies.py.  Data taken from the machine learning lecture notes by Morthen Hjorth-Jensen.

#### NuclearBindingEnergy.py

A Python script that imports and formats the data from MassEval2016.dat using Pandas.  Returns data sets for the number of nucleons, the binding energy, and a design matrix for the liquid drop model.

#### README.md

A text file that outlines the contents of the folder.  Explains what each of the data sets do and how to use them.

### Literature

#### HighBiasLowVariance.pdf

A good review of machine learning techniques  with linked Jupyter notebooks and with physics applications.

#### NNObservablesExtrapolation.pdf

A paper that uses small neural networks to extrapolate energy and radius in Nmax and h-bar omega.  This is another interesting application of the codes in this repository, but in two dimensions.

#### README.md

Explanation of all papers in the repository and a recommended reading order.

#### ShepherdElectronGas.pdf

A paper that uses traditional methods of extrapolation to find the correlation energy in the thermodynamic limit.  Could be an interesting application of the codes in this repository.

### Presentations

#### PGO2020

#### EOS2021

### Recurrent Neural Networks

#### README.md

Landing page for the folder, explains the purpose of folder, outlines all codes in folder, and provides a Getting Started section.

#### RNNSupport.py

Contains methods needed by all RNN files such as error analysis and graphing.

#### SimpleRNNExample.ipynb

Notebook that introduces extrapolation with RNNs.  Explains what sequential formatting is, how all three RNNs work, and why mixed RNNs tend to work better.  Include code examples for all types of RNNs with function and physics examples.

#### RNNTestCode.py

Similar to RegressionTestCode.py -- Contains a series of booleans to turn on and off various features and controls all four RNN code files.

#### SimpleRecurrentNeuralNetwork.py

A collection of neural networks with various numbers of hidden layers.  All hidden layers are simple recurrent neural network layers (SimpleRNN in Keras).

#### LSTMRecurrentNeuralNetwork.py

A collection of neural networks with various numbers of hidden layers. All hidden layers are long short-term memory (LSTM) recurrent neural network layers (lstm in Keras).

#### GRURecurrentNeuralNetwork.py

A collection of neural networks with various numbers of hidden layers.  All hidden layers are gated recurrent unit (GRU) recurrent neural network layers (gru in keras).

#### MixedRecurrentNeuralNetwork.py

A collection of neural networks with various numbers of hidden layers.  Each neural network has a unique combination of simple, LSTM, GRU, and Dense layers.

### Regression

#### ConvergenceTest.py

Using the regression algorithms it extrapolates a data set until the data set has converged to within some threshold.

#### KernelRidgeRegression.py

Methods for kernel ridge regression in the class KernelRidgeRegressionAnalysis for sequential and regular training lus options for autoregression. Also includes methods for hyperparameter tuning in serial or in parallel.

#### LinearRegression.py

Collection of linear regression methods in class LinearRegressionAnlysis for sequential and regular training, plus options for autoregression.  Also includes methods for hyperparameter tuning in serial or in parallel.

#### README.md

Laning page for folder, explains the purpose of the folder, putlines all codes in the folder, and provides a Getting Started section.

#### RegressionSupport.py

Contains funtions needed by all regression code files.  Methods include error anlysis, data formatting, and graphing capabilities.

#### RidgeRegression.py

Collection of ridge regression methods in class RidgeRegressionAnalysis for sequential and regular training plus options for autoregression.  Also includes methods for hyperparameter tuning in serial and in parallel.

#### SimpleRegressionExample.ipynb

Starting point for folder, includes explanation of all regression algorithms, example codes for each algorithm with sequential formatting, and example implementations of all algorithms with a sine function.

#### RegressionTestCode.py

Main controlling code for the regression folder.  Turns on and off various features through booleans.  This could should work for most uses of the regression codes.

#### RegressionConvergence.ipynb

Jupyter notebook that explains how the regression codes can be used to extrapolate to a converged value.  Example codes using ridge regression with a function example and a physics data example.

#### AutoRegression.ipynb

Juoyter notebook that explains what autoregression is and implements it using ridge regression with function and physics examples.

#### LassoRegression.py

Collection of lasso regression methods in class LassoRegressionAnalysis for sequential and regular training plus options for autoregression.  Also includes methods for hyperparameter tuning in serial and in parallel.

### Results




